Fix Julia packages with binary blobs failures and add `withPackages` attribute (#210685)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/languages-frameworks/julia.section.md

# Julia {#sec-julia}

### Installing Julia Packages {#sssec-installing-julia-packages}

> Most Julia compilers available in Nixpkgs have a passthru attribute

Reviewer: Shouldn't all have that?

Author: When I wrote this, one compiler was broken. It has now been fixed and I've added the `passthru`. I'll update the sentence.

called `withPackages`. This function permits creating a collection of
packages ready for use in Julia as in many other language frameworks.

> For example, to make the package `Plots` available to Julia you can run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to make the package `Plots` available to Julia you can use the following attr
```

> ```ShellSession
> $ nix-shell -p 'julia-bin.withPackages (p: with p; [ Plots ])'
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```nix
julia-bin.withPackages (ps: with ps; [ Plots ])
```
````

The list of Julia packages in Nixpkgs is accessible through the
compiler passthru attribute set `juliaPackages`, for example

> `julia-bin.juliaPackages`.

Reviewer: More easily they should appear in nix search and search.nixos.org.

Author: How do those tools match searches?

Note that, if you try to add a nixpkgs provided package to a Julia
environment when a newer version is available upstream, the Julia

> package manager `Pkg` will prefer the latter. To prevent this you can

Reviewer: So the environments are completely impure and you will always get the latest?
This would completely unacceptable for nixpkgs.

Author: No. When you add a package through `withPackages` you can just `import` it in Julia and you'll get the nixpkgs version. However, if you need a package not in nixpkgs then you typically create a Julia environment.
 Julia environments are similar to Phython virtual environments and you create them with the help of the Julia package manager `Pkg`. By default when you add a package it looks for the newest version even if there is a version available on your system. That's a Julia developers decision, not a nixpkgs one. If you don't want that you can do as I explained. A user can simply set an environment variable to always work offline if he so wants.
After the environment is created all package versions are fixed.
